---
title: What is the difference between Deep Learning and Machine Learning?
categories: [how-to-start]
---
(source: [Arthur Chan](http://thegrandjanitor.com/))

#### Deep Learning is Just a Subset of Machine Learning

First of all, deep learning is just a subset of techniques of machine learning.  You may heard from  many "Deep Learning Consultants"-type: "deep learning is completely different from from Machine Learning".   But then when we are talking about "deep learning" these days, we are really talking about "neural networks which has more than one layer".  Since neural network is just one type of ML techniques, it doesn't make any sense to call DL as "different" from ML.   It might work for marketing purpose, but the thought was clearly misleading.

#### Deep Learning is a Representation Learning

So now we know that deep learning is a kind of machine learning.   We still can't quite answer why it is special.  So let's be more specific, deep learning is a kind of representation learning.  What is representation learning?  Representation learning is an opposite of another school of thought/practice: feature engineering. In feature engineering, humans are supposed to hand-craft features to make machine works better.   If you Kaggle before, this should be obvious to you, sometimes you just want to manipulate the raw inputs and create new feature to represent your data.

Yet in some domains which involve high-dimensional data such as images, speech or text, hand-crafting feature was found to be very difficult.  e.g. Using HOG type of approaches to do computer vision usually takes a 4-5 years of a PhD student.   So here we come back to representation learning - can computer automatically learn good features? Spoiler alert: yes.